# **0.1.masks_B**

The **0.1.masks_B** workflow produces instance segmentations of the **nucleus** and **cellmask (cell area)** from fluorescence confocal microscopy images. Using the workflow steps, you can adjust the parameters described below to improve the quality of your segmentations. **0.1.masks_B** is an alternative **“masks”** workflow for cells lacking both nuclei and cell membrane markers. Images with one or multiple cells in the field of view are compatible with the workflow. If you are unsure that this workflow applies to your images, reference the imaging requirements listed below.

| **Imaging Requirements**               |   "1"    |    A     |    B     |    C     |    D     |
| :------------------------------------- | :------: | :------: | :------: | :------: | :------: |
| Nuclei Marker                          |   ✔     |   ✘      |   ✘      |   ✔     |   ✔      |
| Cell Membrane Marker                   |   ✘     |   ✘      |   ✘      |   ✔     |   ✔      |
| Cytoplasmic Organelles                 |   ✔     |   ✔      |   ✔      |   ✔     |   ✔      |
| Cells in FOV                           | Single or Multiple | Single   | Single or Multiple |Single or Multiple |Single or Multiple |

⚠️ Make sure that the first character of the microscopy image layer name is not numeric


## EXTRACTION


### **0.1.1 | Create composite image**

This step combines the intensities of the organelle channels from the input image to create a composite image of summed intensity values.

Parameters:

-	`weight_ch`: the scale factor applied to the channel of the corresponding index before summation. Larger weight_ch values lead to increased influence of the organelle’s intensities in the composite image
-	`rescale`: whether the summed intensities of the composite image are normalized to a 0 to 1 scale

❗ To prevent a specific organelle’s intensities from affecting the composite image, set the weight_ch parameter for that organelle’s index to 0.

## PREPROCESSING


### **0.1.2 | Rescale and smooth image**

This first rescales the composite image’s intensity values from 0 to 1. Next a median and/or Gaussian filter *(for noise reduction)* to the composite image. 

Parameters:

-	`median_size`: the radius of the median filter; a large radius produces a more blurred image.
-	`gauss_sigma`:  the size of the Gaussian kernel; a larger sigma value produces a more blurred image.

❗ If you do not want to apply smoothing, set the parameter to 0.

### **0.1.3 | Log transform + Scharr edge detection**

This step combines two effects to emphasize the contrast between object and background. First, the blurred image is transformed to fit a logarithmic scale. Separately, the Scharr edge detection algorithm is applied to the blurred image. Finally, the two resulting images are merged to complete the step.

## CORE


### **0.1.4 | Semantic segmentation of the cytoplasm**

To begin this step the Allen Cell & Structure Segmenter *“Masked Object Threshold” (MO)* is applied to the smoothed image. A global threshold is performed on the image’s intensity values. Next, an Otsu threshold is performed locally for each connected component resulting from the global threshold. To conclude this step a size and hole-filling filter is performed to clean up the resulting aggregate cytoplasm segmentation.

Parameters:

-	`global_method`: the type of thresholding method to be performed globally
-	`cutoff_size`: the minimum object size to advance to the local thresholding step
-	`local_adjust`: the ratio applied to the local Otsu threshold
-	`min_hole_width`: the minimum hole width to be filled in the segmentation 
-	`max_hole_width`: the maximum hole width to be filled in the segmentation 
-	`small_obj_width`: the minimum width of the objects to remain in the segmentation
-	`fill_filter_method`: if both the hole filling and size filtering methods are applied in 3D or on a 2D level *(slice by slice)*

❗ If the fill_filter_method drop-down menu is set to *“slice_by_slice”* the small_obj_width, min_hole_width, and max_hole_width values are squared, if set to *“3D”* the values are cubed.

### **0.1.5 | Segmentation of nuclei ‘seeds’ from cytoplasm**

This step performs a logical exclusive or *(XOR)* using binary opened variation of the cytoplasm mask *(erosion -> dilation)* and a hole filled version. This exclusion produces a segmentation of the nuclei *“seeds”* which can be further cleaned using a size filter.

Parameters:

-	`max_nuclei_width`: the maximum width of a gap to be detected as a nucleus during the exclusive or
-	`small_obj_width`: the minimum width of the objects to remain in the nuclei *‘seeds’* segmentation

❗ During the execution of the step the max_nuclei_width and small_obj_width values will be cubed.

### **0.1.6 | Combine nucleus masks and cytoplasm masks**

In this step, a logical or is performed using the output of the two previous steps *(nuclei ‘seeds’ and aggregate cytoplasm masks)*. For cleaning, holes can be removed from the resulting segmentation. The result is an aggregate cellmask segmentation that will be utilized as input for the water-shedding algorithm.

Parameter:

-	`max_hole_width`: the maximum hole width to be filled in the segmentation

❗ During the execution of the step the max_hole_width value will be cubed.

## POSTPROCESSING


### **0.1.7 | Label cells based on nuclei 'seeds'; isolate highest intensity**

In the penultimate step, a water-shedding method is performed on aggregate cellmask segmentation with the nuclei *‘seeds’* as the sources. Each nucleus seed is given a unique label; the label with the largest total signal is then selected as the main cellmask.

## POSTPOSTPROCESSING


### **0.1.8 | Segmentation of single nucleus from cytoplasm; cell mask applied**

In the final step, the main cellmask is applied to the aggregate cytoplasm mask to retrieve the main cytoplasm mask. Finally, the resulting cytoplasm mask is inverted to help create the nucleus mask. For cleaning, small objects can be removed from the nucleus mask.

## EXPORT


### **0.1.9 | stack masks**

The final step stacks the two masks in order of nucleus and cellmask. The two masks are stored in a four-dimensional format and can be viewed individually in the output image layer using the sliders in the Napari UI. Toggling 3D view is recommended for inspection purposes.


### The masks_B segmentation workflow is now complete. The final layer can be saved using File > Save.

### Batch processing: If you wish to utilize these settings on more than one image, or revisit the settings later, use the *“Save Workflow”* button at the bottom of the workflow editor. Be sure the settings file ends in *“masks_B”*.
