# **0.1.masks_A**

The **0.1.masks_A workflow** produces instance segmentations of the **nucleus** and **cellmask (cell area)** from fluorescence confocal microscopy images. Using the workflow steps, you can adjust the parameters described below to improve the quality of your segmentations. **0.1.masks_A** is an alternative *“masks”* workflow for cells lacking both nuclei and cell membrane markers.  Additionally, the workflow only supports images with a singular cell within the field of view. If you are unsure that this workflow applies to your images, reference the imaging requirements listed below.

| **Imaging Requirements**               |   "1"    |    A     |    B     |    C     |    D     |
| :------------------------------------- | :------: | :------: | :------: | :------: | :------: |
| Nuclei Marker                          |   ✔     |   ✘      |   ✘      |   ✔     |   ✔      |
| Cell Membrane Marker                   |   ✘     |   ✘      |   ✘      |   ✔     |   ✔      |
| Cytoplasmic Organelles                 |   ✔     |   ✔      |   ✔      |   ✔     |   ✔      |
| Cells in FOV                           | Single or Multiple | Single   | Single or Multiple |Single or Multiple |Single or Multiple |

⚠️ Make sure that the first character of the microscopy image layer name is not numeric


## EXTRACTION


### **0.1.1 | Create composite image**

This step combines the intensities of the organelle channels from the input image to create a composite image of summed intensity values.

Parameters:

-	`weight_ch`: the scale factor applied to the channel of the corresponding index before summation. Larger weight_ch values lead to increased influence of the organelle’s intensities in the composite image
-	`rescale`: whether the summed intensities of the composite image are normalized to a 0 to 1 scale

❗ To prevent a specific organelle’s intensities from affecting the composite image, set the weight_ch parameter for that organelle’s index to 0.


## PREPROCESSING


### **0.1.2 | Rescale and smooth image**

This first rescales the composite image’s intensity values from 0 to 1. Next a median and/or Gaussian filter *(for noise reduction)* to the composite image. 

Parameters:

-	`median_size`: the radius of the median filter; a large radius produces a more blurred image.
-	`gauss_sigma`:  the size of the Gaussian kernel; a larger sigma value produces a more blurred image.

❗ If you do not want to apply smoothing, set the parameter to 0.

### **0.1.3 | Log transform + Scharr edge detection**

This step combines two effects to emphasize the contrast between object and background. First, the blurred image is transformed to fit a logarithmic scale. Separately, the Scharr edge detection algorithm is applied to the blurred image. Finally, the two resulting images are merged to complete the step.

## CORE


### **0.1.4 | Global + local thresholding *(AICSSeg – MO)***

This step applies the Allen Cell & Structure Segmenter *“Masked Object Threshold” (MO)* to the output of the previous step *(0.1.3)*. First, a global threshold is performed on the image’s intensity values. Next, an Otsu threshold is applied locally for each connected component resulting from the global threshold. This creates the cytoplasm mask.

Parameters:

-	`global_method`: the type of thresholding method to be performed globally
-	`cutoff_size`: the minimum object size to advance to the local thresholding step
-	`local_adjust`: the ratio applied to the local Otsu threshold

❗ If you do not wish to adjust the local threshold set local_adjust to 1.

## POSTPROCESSING


### **0.1.5 | Remove small holes and objects**

Small holes and objects are removed to clean up the segmentation.

Parameters:

-	`hole_min`: the minimum hole width to be filled in the segmentation 
-	`hole_max`: the maximum hole width to be filled in the segmentation 
-	`min_size`: the minimum width of the objects to remain in the segmentation
-	`method`: determines if both filters are applied in 3D or on a 2D level *(slice by slice)*

❗ If the method drop-down menu is set to *“slice_by_slice”* the min_size, hole_min, and hole_max values are squared, if set to *“3D”* the values are cubed.

## POSTPOSTPROCESSING


### **0.1.6 | Create nucleus mask from cytoplasm mask**

This step performs a logical exclusive or *(XOR)* with the cytoplasm mask and a hole-filled version. During this process, small objects can again be removed for further cleaning. The output is the nuclei mask needed to make the cellmask.

Parameters:

-	`nuc_min_width`: the minimum expected width of the nucleus
-	`nuc_max_width`: the maximum expected width of the nucleus
-	`fill_filter_method`: if both the hole filling and size filtering methods are applied in 3D or on a 2D level *(slice by slice)*
-	`small_obj_width`: the minimum width of the objects to remain in the segmentation

❗ If the fill_filter_method drop-down menu is set to *“slice_by_slice”* the small_obj_width, nuc_min_width, and nuc_max_width values are squared, if set to *“3D”* the values are cubed.

### **0.1.7 | Create cellmask from cytoplasm and nucleus mask**

This step performs a logical or with the cytoplasm and nucleus masks creating the cellmask segmentation. Small objects and holes can be removed for further cleaning.

Parameters:

-	`min_hole_width`: the minimum hole width to be filled in the segmentation 
-	`max_hole_width`: the maximum hole width to be filled in the segmentation 
-	`small_obj_width`: the minimum width of the objects to remain in the segmentation
-	`fill_filter_method`: if both the hole filling and size filtering methods are applied in 3D or on a 2D level *(slice by slice)*

❗ If the fill_filter_method drop-down menu is set to *“slice_by_slice”* the small_obj_width, min_hole_width, and max_hole_width values are squared, if set to *“3D”* the values are cubed.

## EXPORT

### **0.1.8 | stack masks**

The final step stacks the two masks in order of nucleus and cellmask. The two masks are stored in a four-dimensional format and can be viewed individually in the output image layer using the sliders in the Napari UI. Toggling 3D view is recommended for inspection purposes.

### The masks_A segmentation workflow is now complete. The final layer can be saved using File > Save.

### Batch processing: If you wish to utilize these settings on more than one image, or revisit the settings later, use the *“Save Workflow”* button at the bottom of the workflow editor. Be sure the settings file ends in *“masks_A”*.
