# **0.2.lyso**

The **0.2.lyso workflow** produces an instance segmentation of **lysosome objects** from fluorescence confocal microscopy images. Using the workflow steps, you can adjust the parameters described below to improve the quality of your segmentation.

⚠️ Make sure that the first character of the microscopy image layer name is not numeric

## EXTRACTION


### **0.2.1 | Select a channel for segmentation**

In this step, select the index of the lysosome channel in the input image. *Please note that the first channel is indexed as 0.*


Parameter:

-	`chan`: the index of the lysosome channel


## PREPROCESSING


### **0.2.2 | Rescale and smooth image**

This first rescales the composite image’s intensity values from 0 to 1. Next a median and/or Gaussian filter *(for noise reduction)* to the composite image. 


Parameters:

-	`median_size`: the radius of the median filter; a large radius produces a more blurred image.
-	 `gauss_sigma`: the size of the Gaussian kernel; a larger sigma value produces a more blurred image.

❗ If you do not want to apply smoothing, set the parameter to 0.

## CORE

### **0.2.3 | *‘Dot’* thresholding method *(AICSSeg)***

This step applies the Allen Cell & Structure Segmenter “dot filter” to detect and segment round objects.

Parameters:

-	`dot_scale`:  the expected radius of the round lysosome objects in pixel terms.
-	`dot_cutoff`: the threshold for each scale; a lower threshold value.
-	`method`: determines if the filter is applied in 3D or on a 2D level *(slice by slice)*.

❗ Each dot_scale value is paired with one dot_cutoff value. If you do not wish to utilize more than one dot_scale:dot_cutoff pair, set matching parameters to 0.

### **0.2.4 | ‘Filament’ threshold method *(AICSSeg)***

This step applies the Allen Cell & Structure Segmenter filament filter to detect and segment tubular or filamentous objects.

Parameters:

-	`filament_scale`: the expected radius (in terms of thickness) of the filament-shaped lysosome objects in pixel terms. 
-	`filament_cutoff`: the threshold for each scale; a lower threshold value.
-	`method`: determines if the filter is applied in 3D or on a 2D level *(slice by slice)*.

❗ Each filament _scale value is paired with one filament _cutoff value. If you do not wish to utilize more than one filament_scale: filament_cutoff pair, set matching parameters to 0.

### **0.2.5 | Combine Segmentations *(logical or)***

Here, the output of steps 0.2.3 and 0.2.4 are combined to produce a complete semantic segmentation of the lysosome area.

## POSTPROCESSING

### **0.2.6 | Remove small holes and objects**

Small holes and objects are removed to clean up the segmentation in the penultimate step.

Parameters:

-	`hole_min`: the minimum hole width to be filled in the segmentation 
-	`hole_max`: the maximum hole width to be filled in the segmentation 
-	`min_size`: the minimum width of the objects to remain in the segmentation
-	`method`: determines if both filters are applied in 3D or on a 2D level *(slice by slice)*

❗ If the method drop-down menu is set to *“slice_by_slice”* the min_size, hole_min, and hole_max values are squared, if set to *“3D”* the values are cubed.

## POSTPOSTPROCESSING

### **0.2.7 | Label objects**

The final step labels each lysosome object with a unique integer starting at 1 *(0 represents the background)*. Individual objects are determined based on proximity. If they are joined by one pixel in any direction *(X,Y,Z, or diagonal)*, the objects are considered connected.  The labels are encoded as the intensity values of the object’s voxels.

### The lysosome segmentation workflow is now complete. The final layer can be saved using File > Save.

### Batch processing: If you wish to utilize these settings on more than one image, or revisit the settings later, use the *“Save Workflow”* button at the bottom of the workflow editor. Be sure the settings file ends in *“lyso”*.
