# **0.4.golgi**

The **0.4.golgi** workflow produces an instance segmentation of **Golgi apparatus objects** from fluorescence confocal microscopy images. Using the workflow steps, you can adjust the parameters described below to improve the quality of your segmentation.

⚠️ Make sure that the first character of the microscopy image layer name is not numeric

## EXTRACTION


## **0.4.1 | Select a channel for segmentation**

In this step, select the index of the Golgi channel in the input image. Please note that the first channel is indexed as 0.

Parameter:

-	`chan`: the index of the Golgi channel

## PREPROCESSING


### **0.4.2 | Rescale and smooth image**

This first rescales the composite image’s intensity values from 0 to 1. Next a median and/or Gaussian filter *(for noise reduction)* to the composite image. 

Parameters:

-	`median_size`: the radius of the median filter; a large radius produces a more blurred image.
-	`gauss_sigma`:  the size of the Gaussian kernel; a larger sigma value produces a more blurred image.

❗ If you do not want to apply smoothing, set the parameter to 0.

## CORE


### **0.4.3 | Global + local thresholding *(AICSSeg – MO)***

This step applies the Allen Cell & Structure Segmenter *“Masked Object Threshold” (MO)* to the smoothed image. First, a global threshold is performed on the smoothed image’s intensity values. Next, an Otsu threshold is applied locally for each connected component resulting from the global threshold.

Parameters:

-	`global_method`: The type of thresholding method to be performed globally
-	`cutoff_size`: The minimum object size to advance to the local thresholding step
-	`local_adjust`: The ratio applied to the local Otsu threshold

❗ If you do not wish to adjust the local threshold set local_adjust to 1.

### **0.4.4 | Thin segmentation *(Topology preserving)***

This step applies the Allen Cell & Structure Segmenter *“Topology Preserving Thinning"* to thin the objects while maintaining the topology of the shape.

Parameters:

-	`min_thickness`: Half of the minimal width to remain in the Golgi objects post-thinning
-	`thin`: The number of layers to be removed from the surface of the Golgi objects

### **0.4.5 | *‘Dot’* thresholding method *(AICSSeg)***

This step applies the Allen Cell & Structure Segmenter *“dot filter”* to detect and segment round objects.

Parameters:

-	`dot_scale`:  the expected radius of the round Golgi objects in pixel terms.
-	`dot_cutoff`: the threshold for each scale; a lower threshold value.
-	`method`: determines if the filter is applied in 3D or on a 2D level *(slice by slice)*.

❗ Each dot_scale value is paired with one dot_cutoff value. If you do not wish to utilize more than one dot_scale:dot_cutoff pair, set matching parameters to 0.

### **0.4.6 | Combine Segmentations *(logical or)***

Here, the output of steps 0.4.4 and 0.4.5 are combined to produce a complete semantic segmentation of the Golgi body area.

## POSTPROCESSING


### **0.4.7 | Remove small holes and objects**

Small holes and objects are removed to clean up the segmentation in the penultimate step.

Parameters:

-	`hole_min`: the minimum width of the holes to be filled in the segmentation
-	`hole_max`: the maximum width of the holes to be filled in the segmentation
-	`min_size`: the minimum width of the objects to remain in the segmentation
-	`method`: determines if both filters are applied in 3D or on a 2D level *(slice by slice)*

❗ If the method drop-down menu is set to *“slice_by_slice”* the min_size, hole_min, and hole_max values are squared, if set to “3D” the values are cubed.

## POSTPOSTPROCESSING

### **0.4.8 | Label objects**

The final step labels each Golgi object with a unique integer starting at 1 *(0 represents the background)*. Individual objects are determined based on proximity or declumping. If they are joined by one pixel in any direction *(X,Y,Z, or diagonal)*, the objects are considered connected when declumping is not implemented.  When declumping is implemented, individual objects are determined based on the gradient of the raw intensity image and connectivity combined. The labels are encoded as the intensity values of the object’s voxels.

-   `declump`: determines if declumping procedures should be applied to label the image
-   `dec_sig`: the gaussian sigma value used for the highpass filter
-   `dec_iter`: the number of times to apply the gaussian highpass to the image
-   `dec_open`: determines if an opening filter will be applied to the image after the highpass filter
-   `thresh_adj`: the scalar used to adjust the computationally determined threshold of the peaks
-   `min_size`: the minimum size of an intensity peak in voxels

❗ If the declump drop-down menu is set to *“False”* the remaining values are ignored, and individual objects are determined solely based on connectivity.

### The Golgi segmentation workflow is now complete. The final layer can be saved using File > Save.

### Batch processing: If you wish to utilize these settings on more than one image, or revisit the settings later, use the *“Save Workflow”* button at the bottom of the workflow editor. Be sure the settings file ends in *“golgi”*.
