# **0.6.ER**

The **0.6.ER** workflow produces an instance segmentation of the **endoplasmic reticulum** from fluorescence confocal microscopy images. Using the workflow steps, you can adjust the parameters described below to improve the quality of your segmentation.

⚠️ Make sure that the first character of the microscopy image layer name is not numeric

## EXTRACTION


### **0.6.1 | Select a channel for segmentation**

In this step, select the index of the ER channel in the input image. Please note that the first channel is indexed as 0.

Parameter:

-	`chan`: the index of the ER channel

## PREPROCESSING


### **0.6.2 | Rescale and smooth image**

This first rescales the composite image’s intensity values from 0 to 1. Next a median and/or Gaussian filter *(for noise reduction)* to the composite image.

Parameters:

-	`median_size`: the radius of the median filter; a large radius produces a more blurred image.
-	`gauss_sigma`:  the size of the Gaussian kernel; a larger sigma value produces a more blurred image.

❗ If you do not want to apply smoothing, set the parameter to 0.

## CORE


### **0.6.3 | Global + local thresholding *(AICSSeg – MO)***

This step applies the Allen Cell & Structure Segmenter *“Masked Object Threshold” (MO)* to the smoothed image. First, a global threshold is performed on the smoothed image’s intensity values. Next, an Otsu threshold is applied locally for each connected component resulting from the global threshold.

Parameters:

-	`global_method`: The type of thresholding method to be performed globally
-	`cutoff_size`: The minimum object size to advance to the local thresholding step
-	`local_adjust`: The ratio applied to the local Otsu threshold

❗ If you do not wish to adjust the local threshold set local_adjust to 1.

### **0.6.4 | ‘Filament’ threshold method *(AICSSeg)***

This step applies the Allen Cell & Structure Segmenter filament filter to detect and segment tubular or filamentous objects.

Parameters:

-	`filament_scale`: the expected radius *(in terms of thickness)* of the ER in pixel terms. 
-	`filament_cutoff`: the threshold for each scale; a lower threshold value.
-	`method`: determines if the filter is applied in 3D or on a 2D level *(slice by slice)*.

❗ Each filament _scale value is paired with one filament _cutoff value. If you do not wish to utilize more than one filament_scale: filament_cutoff pair, set matching parameters to 0.

### **0.6.5 | Combine Segmentations *(logical or)***

Here, the output of steps 0.6.3 and 0.6.4 are combined to produce a complete semantic segmentation of the endoplasmic reticulum.

## POSTPROCESSING


### **0.6.6 | Remove small holes and objects**

Small holes and objects are removed to clean up the segmentation in the penultimate step.

Parameters:

-	`hole_min`: the minimum width of the holes to be filled in the segmentation
-	`hole_max`: the maximum width of the holes to be filled in the segmentation
-	`min_size`: the minimum width of the objects to remain in the segmentation
-	`method`: determines if both filters are applied in 3D or on a 2D level *(slice by slice)*

❗ If the method drop-down menu is set to *“slice_by_slice”* the min_size, hole_min, and hole_max values are squared, if set to *“3D”* the values are cubed.

## POSTPOSTPROCESSING


### **0.6.7 | Create one object *(as unt16)***

The final step labels the ER with integer 1 *(0 represents the background)*. This is regardless of voxel connectivity and proximity since the cell only contains one ER. The label is encoded as the intensity value for each voxel in the object.

### The ER segmentation workflow is now complete. The final layer can be saved using File > Save.

### Batch processing: If you wish to utilize these settings on more than one image, or revisit the settings later, use the *“Save Workflow”* button at the bottom of the workflow editor. Be sure the settings file ends in *“ER”*.
